pipeline-governance-cleanup/src/README.md, before:

# Source Files

PowerShell scripts and automation artifacts for pipeline governance cleanup.

## Scripts

| Script | Description | Prerequisites |
|--------|-------------|---------------|
| [Get-PipelineInventory.ps1](./Get-PipelineInventory.ps1) | Exports Power Platform environment inventory | PAC CLI |
| [Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1](./Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1) | Sends governance notifications to owners | Microsoft Graph SDK |

## Get-PipelineInventory.ps1

Exports all Power Platform environments to CSV for governance review, with optional pipeline detection.

### Prerequisites

- Power Platform CLI (`pac`): [Install](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/developer/cli/introduction)
- Power Platform Admin role

### Usage

```powershell
# Authenticate to Power Platform first
pac auth create

# Basic inventory export
.\Get-PipelineInventory.ps1 -OutputPath ".\reports\environment-inventory.csv"

# With pipeline probing (recommended)
.\Get-PipelineInventory.ps1 -OutputPath ".\reports\environment-inventory.csv" -ProbePipelines

# With designated host flag
.\Get-PipelineInventory.ps1 -OutputPath ".\reports\environment-inventory.csv" -ProbePipelines -DesignatedHostId "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| OutputPath | No | Path for CSV output (default: `.\PipelineInventory.csv`) |
| ProbePipelines | No | Probe each environment for pipeline configurations |
| DesignatedHostId | No | Environment ID of your designated pipelines host |

### Output

CSV file with columns:
- EnvironmentId
- EnvironmentName
- EnvironmentType
- EnvironmentUrl
- IsManaged
- CreatedTime
- PipelinesHostId (requires manual verification)
- HasPipelinesEnabled ("Yes", "No", "Unknown", or "[Not Probed]")
- ComplianceStatus (requires manual verification)
- Notes (pipeline count or error details)

### Limitations

This script **can**:
- Detect which environments have pipelines using `-ProbePipelines`

This script **cannot**:
- Determine which pipelines host an environment is linked to
- Query the DeploymentPipeline table directly

Manual verification is required to identify host associations. See [PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](../PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md).

---

## Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1

Sends email notifications to environment/pipeline owners via Microsoft Graph.

### Prerequisites

- Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK: `Install-Module Microsoft.Graph`
- Mail.Send permission (delegated only - interactive sign-in required)

### Input CSV Format

| Column | Required | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| OwnerEmail | Yes | Email address to notify |
| EnvironmentName | Yes | Environment display name |
| EnvironmentId | Yes | Environment GUID |
| OwnerName | No | Owner's name (defaults to "Pipeline Owner") |

### Usage

```powershell
# Test mode - preview emails without sending
.\Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1 `
    -InputPath ".\reports\non-compliant.csv" `
    -EnforcementDate "2026-03-01" `
    -TestMode

# Send actual notifications
.\Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1 `
    -InputPath ".\reports\non-compliant.csv" `
    -EnforcementDate "2026-03-01" `
    -SupportEmail "platform-ops@contoso.com" `
    -MigrationUrl "https://contoso.service-now.com/migrate" `
    -ExemptionUrl "https://contoso.service-now.com/exemption"
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Required | Default | Description |
|-----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| InputPath | Yes | - | Path to CSV with owner information |
| EnforcementDate | Yes | - | Date when enforcement actions will occur |
| TestMode | No | false | Preview emails without sending |
| SupportEmail | No | platform-ops@company.com | Support team email |
| MigrationUrl | No | (placeholder) | URL for migration request form |
| ExemptionUrl | No | (placeholder) | URL for exemption request form |

---

## Workflow

```
1. Run Get-PipelineInventory.ps1
   ↓
2. Manually verify pipeline status (PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md)
   ↓
3. Prepare non-compliant CSV with owner info
   ↓
4. Run Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1 (test first)
   ↓
5. Wait for notification period
   ↓
6. Execute force-link manually (PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md)
```

---

## Future Additions

| Artifact | Status | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| Export-ComplianceReport.ps1 | Planned | Generate compliance summary report |
| Teams adaptive card JSON | Available | See [NOTIFICATION_TEMPLATES.md](../NOTIFICATION_TEMPLATES.md) |

---

## Contributing

If you create reusable scripts or automation artifacts:

1. Follow PowerShell best practices (comment-based help, parameter validation)
2. Document prerequisites and permissions
3. Include example usage
4. Submit a pull request

Commit message:

fix: Pipeline Governance Cleanup v1.0.5 - critical bug fixes
CRITICAL fixes from external technical review:
- Changed pac env list --json to pac admin list --json (env list does not support --json)
- Fixed JSON property names: Environment Id, Environment, Type (properties have spaces)
- Removed --json from pac pipeline list (unsupported), now parses text output

MEDIUM fixes:
- Added -SenderEmail parameter to Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1 for application permissions
- Clarified Mail.Send supports both delegated AND application permissions

LOW fixes:
- Added Managed Environment requirement for pipeline targets in PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md
- Updated output column documentation (IsManaged/CreatedTime not available from CLI)

These bugs would have caused complete script execution failures in production.

pipeline-governance-cleanup/src/README.md, after:

# Source Files

PowerShell scripts and automation artifacts for pipeline governance cleanup.

## Scripts

| Script | Description | Prerequisites |
|--------|-------------|---------------|
| [Get-PipelineInventory.ps1](./Get-PipelineInventory.ps1) | Exports Power Platform environment inventory | PAC CLI |
| [Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1](./Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1) | Sends governance notifications to owners | Microsoft Graph SDK |

## Get-PipelineInventory.ps1

Exports all Power Platform environments to CSV for governance review, with optional pipeline detection.

### Prerequisites

- Power Platform CLI (`pac`): [Install](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/developer/cli/introduction)
- Power Platform Admin role

### Usage

```powershell
# Authenticate to Power Platform first
pac auth create

# Basic inventory export
.\Get-PipelineInventory.ps1 -OutputPath ".\reports\environment-inventory.csv"

# With pipeline probing (recommended)
.\Get-PipelineInventory.ps1 -OutputPath ".\reports\environment-inventory.csv" -ProbePipelines

# With designated host flag
.\Get-PipelineInventory.ps1 -OutputPath ".\reports\environment-inventory.csv" -ProbePipelines -DesignatedHostId "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| OutputPath | No | Path for CSV output (default: `.\PipelineInventory.csv`) |
| ProbePipelines | No | Probe each environment for pipeline configurations |
| DesignatedHostId | No | Environment ID of your designated pipelines host |

### Output

CSV file with columns:
- EnvironmentId
- EnvironmentName
- EnvironmentType
- EnvironmentUrl
- IsManaged (requires admin portal verification - not available from CLI)
- CreatedTime (not available from CLI)
- PipelinesHostId (requires manual verification)
- HasPipelinesEnabled ("Yes", "No", "Unknown", or "[Not Probed]")
- ComplianceStatus (requires manual verification)
- Notes (pipeline count or error details)

> **Note:** The `pac admin list` command does not return IsManaged or CreatedTime. Verify Managed Environment status in the Power Platform Admin Center.

### Limitations

This script **can**:
- Detect which environments have pipelines using `-ProbePipelines`

This script **cannot**:
- Determine which pipelines host an environment is linked to
- Query the DeploymentPipeline table directly

Manual verification is required to identify host associations. See [PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](../PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md).

---

## Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1

Sends email notifications to environment/pipeline owners via Microsoft Graph.

### Prerequisites

- Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK: `Install-Module Microsoft.Graph`
- Mail.Send permission (delegated or application)

**Authentication modes:**
- **Delegated (default)**: Uses interactive sign-in, sends email as signed-in user
- **Application**: Requires `-SenderEmail` parameter to specify sending user

### Input CSV Format

| Column | Required | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| OwnerEmail | Yes | Email address to notify |
| EnvironmentName | Yes | Environment display name |
| EnvironmentId | Yes | Environment GUID |
| OwnerName | No | Owner's name (defaults to "Pipeline Owner") |

### Usage

```powershell
# Test mode - preview emails without sending
.\Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1 `
    -InputPath ".\reports\non-compliant.csv" `
    -EnforcementDate "2026-03-01" `
    -TestMode

# Send actual notifications
.\Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1 `
    -InputPath ".\reports\non-compliant.csv" `
    -EnforcementDate "2026-03-01" `
    -SupportEmail "platform-ops@contoso.com" `
    -MigrationUrl "https://contoso.service-now.com/migrate" `
    -ExemptionUrl "https://contoso.service-now.com/exemption"
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Required | Default | Description |
|-----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| InputPath | Yes | - | Path to CSV with owner information |
| EnforcementDate | Yes | - | Date when enforcement actions will occur |
| TestMode | No | false | Preview emails without sending |
| SupportEmail | No | platform-ops@company.com | Support team email |
| MigrationUrl | No | (placeholder) | URL for migration request form |
| ExemptionUrl | No | (placeholder) | URL for exemption request form |
| SenderEmail | No | (empty) | Email address of sender (required for application permissions) |

---

## Workflow

```
1. Run Get-PipelineInventory.ps1
   ↓
2. Manually verify pipeline status (PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md)
   ↓
3. Prepare non-compliant CSV with owner info
   ↓
4. Run Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1 (test first)
   ↓
5. Wait for notification period
   ↓
6. Execute force-link manually (PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md)
```

---

## Future Additions

| Artifact | Status | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| Export-ComplianceReport.ps1 | Planned | Generate compliance summary report |
| Teams adaptive card JSON | Available | See [NOTIFICATION_TEMPLATES.md](../NOTIFICATION_TEMPLATES.md) |

---

## Contributing

If you create reusable scripts or automation artifacts:

1. Follow PowerShell best practices (comment-based help, parameter validation)
2. Document prerequisites and permissions
3. Include example usage
4. Submit a pull request
