pipeline-governance-cleanup/AUTOMATION_GUIDE.md, before:

# Automation Guide

This guide covers what CAN be automated for pipeline governance - and what cannot.

> **Important:** Full automation of pipeline governance cleanup is not possible due to Power Platform limitations. This guide documents the automation that IS available and directs you to manual procedures where required.

---

## What Can Be Automated

| Capability | Method | Documentation |
|------------|--------|---------------|
| List all environments | PowerShell + PAC CLI | [src/Get-PipelineInventory.ps1](./src/Get-PipelineInventory.ps1) |
| Send owner notifications | PowerShell + Microsoft Graph | [src/Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1](./src/Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1) |
| Monitor deployment events | Power Automate triggers | This document (below) |
| Alert on new pipelines | Power Automate + Teams | This document (below) |

## What CANNOT Be Automated

| Capability | Reason | Alternative |
|------------|--------|-------------|
| Query DeploymentPipeline table | System table not exposed to "List rows" action | Use pipeline triggers only |
| Identify host associations | No API returns pipeline-to-host mapping | Manual verification in admin portal |
| Force-link environments | No API or CLI command exists | [PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](./PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md) |
| Deactivate pipelines directly | Requires host environment access | Manual action in maker portal |

See [LIMITATIONS.md](./LIMITATIONS.md) for technical details.

---

## PowerShell Scripts

### Get-PipelineInventory.ps1

Exports all Power Platform environments to CSV for review.

**Location:** `src/Get-PipelineInventory.ps1`

**Usage:**

```powershell
# Basic usage - export all environments
.\src\Get-PipelineInventory.ps1 -OutputPath ".\reports\environment-inventory.csv"

# With user email resolution (requires Graph permissions)
.\src\Get-PipelineInventory.ps1 -OutputPath ".\reports\environment-inventory.csv" -IncludeUserDetails
```

**Output columns:**

| Column | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| EnvironmentId | Power Platform environment GUID |
| EnvironmentName | Display name |
| EnvironmentType | Production, Sandbox, Developer, etc. |
| EnvironmentUrl | Dataverse URL |
| IsManaged | Whether environment is managed |
| CreatedTime | Creation timestamp |
| PipelinesHostId | [Manual Check Required] |
| HasPipelinesEnabled | [Manual Check Required] |
| ComplianceStatus | Requires manual verification |
| Notes | Additional information or instructions |

**What this script does NOT do:**
- It cannot identify which environments have pipelines enabled
- It cannot determine which pipelines host an environment is linked to
- It cannot query the DeploymentPipeline table

After running this script, you must manually verify each environment's pipeline configuration.

### Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1

Sends governance notification emails to environment/pipeline owners.

**Location:** `src/Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1`

**Prerequisites:**
- Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK: `Install-Module Microsoft.Graph`
- Mail.Send permission (run `Connect-MgGraph -Scopes "Mail.Send"`)

**Input CSV requirements:**

| Column | Required | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| OwnerEmail | Yes | Email address to notify |
| EnvironmentName | Yes | Environment display name |
| EnvironmentId | Yes | Environment GUID |
| OwnerName | No | Owner's display name (defaults to "Pipeline Owner") |

**Usage:**

```powershell
# Test mode - preview emails without sending
.\src\Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1 `
    -InputPath ".\reports\non-compliant.csv" `
    -EnforcementDate "2026-03-01" `
    -TestMode

# Send actual notifications
.\src\Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1 `
    -InputPath ".\reports\non-compliant.csv" `
    -EnforcementDate "2026-03-01" `
    -SupportEmail "platform-ops@contoso.com" `
    -MigrationUrl "https://contoso.service-now.com/migrate" `
    -ExemptionUrl "https://contoso.service-now.com/exemption"
```

---

## Power Automate Trigger-Based Monitoring

While you cannot query the DeploymentPipeline table directly, you CAN create flows that respond to pipeline events using **Dataverse triggers**.

### Available Pipeline Triggers

Power Platform exposes these pipeline lifecycle events that can trigger Power Automate flows:

| Trigger | Fires When |
|---------|------------|
| OnDeploymentRequested | A deployment is initiated |
| OnPreDeploymentStarted | Pre-deployment validation begins |
| OnPreDeploymentCompleted | Pre-deployment validation finishes |
| OnApprovalStarted | Approval request is created |
| OnApprovalCompleted | Approval is granted or denied |
| OnDeploymentStarted | Deployment execution begins |
| OnDeploymentCompleted | A deployment finishes (success or failure) |

These triggers fire within the pipelines host environment where the pipeline is configured.

### Create Deployment Monitoring Flow

This flow alerts your team when deployments occur.

#### Step 1: Create New Flow

1. Go to [Power Automate](https://make.powerautomate.com)
2. Select your **pipelines host environment**
3. Click **Create** > **Automated cloud flow**
4. Name: `Pipeline Governance - Deployment Alert`
5. Search for trigger: **When an action is performed**
6. Select **Microsoft Dataverse**
7. Click **Create**

#### Step 2: Configure Trigger

| Setting | Value |
|---------|-------|
| Catalog | Deployment Pipeline |
| Category | Pipeline Extensibility |
| Table name | Deployment Stage Run |
| Action name | OnDeploymentCompleted |

> **Note:** The trigger names and configuration may vary based on your Dataverse version. If you don't see "Deployment Pipeline" in the catalog, ensure the Power Platform Pipelines app is installed on your host environment.

#### Step 3: Extract Deployment Information

Add a **Compose** action to capture key information:

**Inputs:**
```json
{
  "DeploymentId": "@{triggerOutputs()?['body/OutputParameters/StageRunId']}",
  "DeploymentStatus": "@{triggerOutputs()?['body/OutputParameters/Status']}",
  "PipelineName": "@{triggerOutputs()?['body/OutputParameters/PipelineName']}",
  "StageName": "@{triggerOutputs()?['body/OutputParameters/StageName']}",
  "Timestamp": "@{utcNow()}"
}
```

> **Note:** The exact output parameter names depend on the trigger version. Check the dynamic content panel for available fields.

#### Step 4: Send Teams Alert

1. Add **Microsoft Teams** > **Post message in a chat or channel**
2. Configure:

| Setting | Value |
|---------|-------|
| Post as | Flow bot |
| Post in | Channel |
| Team | Your governance team |
| Channel | Pipeline-Alerts |
| Message | See template below |

**Message Template:**

```
**Pipeline Deployment Completed**

- **Pipeline:** @{outputs('Compose')?['PipelineName']}
- **Stage:** @{outputs('Compose')?['StageName']}
- **Status:** @{outputs('Compose')?['DeploymentStatus']}
- **Time:** @{outputs('Compose')?['Timestamp']}

Review in [Deployment Pipeline Configuration](https://[your-host-env].crm.dynamics.com)
```

#### Step 5: Save and Test

1. Click **Save**
2. Create a test deployment in your pipelines host
3. Verify the Teams alert is received

### Create New Pipeline Detection Flow (Limited)

You can detect when new pipelines are created by monitoring the first deployment:

1. Use the **OnDeploymentRequested** trigger
2. Query your tracking table/list for the pipeline name
3. If not found, it's a new pipeline - send alert
4. Add pipeline to tracking list

**Limitation:** This only detects pipelines when they're first used, not when created.

---

## Custom Tracking with Dataverse

If you want to maintain a governance log, create a custom table (not the system DeploymentPipeline table).

### Create PipelineCleanupLog Table

1. Go to [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com)
2. Select your governance environment (can be the pipelines host)
3. Go to **Tables** > **New table**
4. Configure:

| Setting | Value |
|---------|-------|
| Display name | Pipeline Cleanup Log |
| Plural name | Pipeline Cleanup Logs |
| Primary column | Environment Name |

### Add Columns

| Column | Type | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| EnvironmentId | Text | Power Platform environment GUID |
| OwnerEmail | Text | Owner's email address |
| DiscoveredDate | Date and Time | When identified as non-compliant |
| NotificationSentDate | Date and Time | When owner was notified |
| EnforcementDate | Date and Time | Target force-link date |
| Status | Choice | Pending, Notified, ForceLinked, Exempted |
| Notes | Multiline Text | Admin notes |
| ExemptionJustification | Multiline Text | If exempted, the business reason |

### Flow: Update Tracking After Notification

After sending notifications via PowerShell, update the tracking table:

1. Create **Instant cloud flow** with manual trigger
2. Accept CSV file as input (or read from SharePoint)
3. Loop through records
4. For each record, add/update row in PipelineCleanupLog
5. Set Status = "Notified", NotificationSentDate = utcNow()

---

## Validation Flow

Create a flow to check for untracked environments.

### Flow: Weekly Compliance Check

1. **Trigger:** Recurrence (Weekly, Monday 8 AM)
2. **Action:** Run PowerShell script via Azure Automation (or manual export)
3. **Action:** Compare environment list against tracking table
4. **Condition:** If new environments found not in tracking
5. **Action:** Send alert to Platform Ops team

**Note:** Because you cannot query environments or pipelines directly from Power Automate, this flow typically:
- Reads from a SharePoint list/Excel file that's manually updated
- Or triggers an Azure Automation runbook that runs the PowerShell script

---

## Expression Reference

### Get Current Timestamp (UTC)

```
utcNow()
```

### Format Date for Display

```
formatDateTime(triggerOutputs()?['body/Timestamp'], 'MMMM d, yyyy h:mm tt')
```

### Check if Value is Empty

```
empty(triggerOutputs()?['body/OutputParameters/StageName'])
```

### Build Alert Message

```
concat('Pipeline ', triggerOutputs()?['body/OutputParameters/PipelineName'], ' deployment completed at ', utcNow())
```

---

## Error Handling

### Common Errors

| Error | Cause | Solution |
|-------|-------|----------|
| Trigger not found | Pipelines app not installed | Install Power Platform Pipelines on host |
| 403 Forbidden | Missing role | Add Deployment Pipeline Administrator role |
| No dynamic content | Wrong trigger selected | Ensure using Dataverse action trigger |
| Teams post fails | Bot not added | Add Flow bot to Teams channel |

### Add Error Handling to Flows

1. Configure **run after** settings for error paths
2. Add **Scope** actions for try/catch patterns
3. Send error notifications to ops team

**Run After Configuration:**

```json
{
  "runAfter": {
    "Previous_Action": ["Succeeded", "Failed", "Skipped", "TimedOut"]
  }
}
```

---

## Summary: Automation Boundaries

| Task | Automated | Manual | Notes |
|------|-----------|--------|-------|
| List environments | PowerShell | - | PAC CLI |
| Identify pipeline hosts | - | Admin Portal | No API available |
| Query pipelines | Triggers only | Admin Portal | Cannot use "List rows" |
| Send notifications | PowerShell | - | Microsoft Graph |
| Force-link environments | - | Admin Portal | [PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](./PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md) |
| Monitor deployments | Power Automate | - | Trigger-based |
| Track compliance | Custom table | Manual updates | Hybrid approach |

---

## Next Steps

1. Run [Get-PipelineInventory.ps1](./src/Get-PipelineInventory.ps1) to get environment baseline
2. Manually verify pipeline configurations ([PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](./PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md))
3. Prepare notification list with owner information
4. Run [Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1](./src/Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1)
5. Set up trigger-based monitoring (this guide)
6. Execute force-link after notification period ([PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](./PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md))

See [SETUP_CHECKLIST.md](./SETUP_CHECKLIST.md) for complete deployment checklist.

Commit message:

fix: Pipeline Governance Cleanup v1.0.3 - executive feedback remediation
Address material correctness gaps identified during executive assessment:

- Get-PipelineInventory.ps1: Fix header overpromising, add -ProbePipelines
  switch to detect pipeline presence, remove dead Graph code
- Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1: Fix permission claim (delegated only)
- NOTIFICATION_TEMPLATES.md: Standardize to force-link language
- LIMITATIONS.md: Acknowledge pac pipeline list --environment capability
- Update all documentation for new -ProbePipelines functionality

pipeline-governance-cleanup/AUTOMATION_GUIDE.md, after:

# Automation Guide

This guide covers what CAN be automated for pipeline governance - and what cannot.

> **Important:** Full automation of pipeline governance cleanup is not possible due to Power Platform limitations. This guide documents the automation that IS available and directs you to manual procedures where required.

---

## What Can Be Automated

| Capability | Method | Documentation |
|------------|--------|---------------|
| List all environments | PowerShell + PAC CLI | [src/Get-PipelineInventory.ps1](./src/Get-PipelineInventory.ps1) |
| Detect pipeline presence | PowerShell + PAC CLI | Use `-ProbePipelines` switch |
| Send owner notifications | PowerShell + Microsoft Graph | [src/Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1](./src/Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1) |
| Monitor deployment events | Power Automate triggers | This document (below) |
| Alert on new pipelines | Power Automate + Teams | This document (below) |

## What CANNOT Be Automated

| Capability | Reason | Alternative |
|------------|--------|-------------|
| Query DeploymentPipeline table | System table not exposed to "List rows" action | Use pipeline triggers only |
| Identify host associations | No API returns pipeline-to-host mapping | Manual verification in admin portal |
| Force-link environments | No API or CLI command exists | [PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](./PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md) |
| Deactivate pipelines directly | Requires host environment access | Manual action in maker portal |

See [LIMITATIONS.md](./LIMITATIONS.md) for technical details.

---

## PowerShell Scripts

### Get-PipelineInventory.ps1

Exports all Power Platform environments to CSV for review, with optional pipeline detection.

**Location:** `src/Get-PipelineInventory.ps1`

**Usage:**

```powershell
# Basic usage - export all environments
.\src\Get-PipelineInventory.ps1 -OutputPath ".\reports\environment-inventory.csv"

# With pipeline probing (recommended) - detects which environments have pipelines
.\src\Get-PipelineInventory.ps1 -OutputPath ".\reports\environment-inventory.csv" -ProbePipelines

# With designated host flag for compliance tracking
.\src\Get-PipelineInventory.ps1 -OutputPath ".\reports\environment-inventory.csv" -ProbePipelines -DesignatedHostId "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
```

**Parameters:**

| Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| OutputPath | No | Path for CSV output (default: `.\PipelineInventory.csv`) |
| ProbePipelines | No | Probe each environment for pipeline configurations |
| DesignatedHostId | No | Environment ID of your designated pipelines host |

**Output columns:**

| Column | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| EnvironmentId | Power Platform environment GUID |
| EnvironmentName | Display name |
| EnvironmentType | Production, Sandbox, Developer, etc. |
| EnvironmentUrl | Dataverse URL |
| IsManaged | Whether environment is managed |
| CreatedTime | Creation timestamp |
| PipelinesHostId | [Manual Check Required] - cannot be determined via API |
| HasPipelinesEnabled | "Yes", "No", "Unknown", or "[Not Probed]" |
| ComplianceStatus | Requires manual verification |
| Notes | Pipeline count or error details |

**What `-ProbePipelines` does:**
- Runs `pac pipeline list --environment <id>` for each environment
- Detects whether pipelines deploy TO the environment (as a target stage)
- Populates `HasPipelinesEnabled` with "Yes" (with count), "No", or "Unknown"

**What this script does NOT do:**
- It cannot determine which pipelines HOST an environment is linked to
- It cannot query the DeploymentPipeline table directly

After running this script, environments with `HasPipelinesEnabled = "Yes"` need manual verification in the Deployment Pipeline Configuration app to identify their host.

### Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1

Sends governance notification emails to environment/pipeline owners.

**Location:** `src/Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1`

**Prerequisites:**
- Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK: `Install-Module Microsoft.Graph`
- Mail.Send permission (run `Connect-MgGraph -Scopes "Mail.Send"`)

**Input CSV requirements:**

| Column | Required | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| OwnerEmail | Yes | Email address to notify |
| EnvironmentName | Yes | Environment display name |
| EnvironmentId | Yes | Environment GUID |
| OwnerName | No | Owner's display name (defaults to "Pipeline Owner") |

**Usage:**

```powershell
# Test mode - preview emails without sending
.\src\Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1 `
    -InputPath ".\reports\non-compliant.csv" `
    -EnforcementDate "2026-03-01" `
    -TestMode

# Send actual notifications
.\src\Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1 `
    -InputPath ".\reports\non-compliant.csv" `
    -EnforcementDate "2026-03-01" `
    -SupportEmail "platform-ops@contoso.com" `
    -MigrationUrl "https://contoso.service-now.com/migrate" `
    -ExemptionUrl "https://contoso.service-now.com/exemption"
```

---

## Power Automate Trigger-Based Monitoring

While you cannot query the DeploymentPipeline table directly, you CAN create flows that respond to pipeline events using **Dataverse triggers**.

### Available Pipeline Triggers

Power Platform exposes these pipeline lifecycle events that can trigger Power Automate flows:

| Trigger | Fires When |
|---------|------------|
| OnDeploymentRequested | A deployment is initiated |
| OnPreDeploymentStarted | Pre-deployment validation begins |
| OnPreDeploymentCompleted | Pre-deployment validation finishes |
| OnApprovalStarted | Approval request is created |
| OnApprovalCompleted | Approval is granted or denied |
| OnDeploymentStarted | Deployment execution begins |
| OnDeploymentCompleted | A deployment finishes (success or failure) |

These triggers fire within the pipelines host environment where the pipeline is configured.

### Create Deployment Monitoring Flow

This flow alerts your team when deployments occur.

#### Step 1: Create New Flow

1. Go to [Power Automate](https://make.powerautomate.com)
2. Select your **pipelines host environment**
3. Click **Create** > **Automated cloud flow**
4. Name: `Pipeline Governance - Deployment Alert`
5. Search for trigger: **When an action is performed**
6. Select **Microsoft Dataverse**
7. Click **Create**

#### Step 2: Configure Trigger

| Setting | Value |
|---------|-------|
| Catalog | Deployment Pipeline |
| Category | Pipeline Extensibility |
| Table name | Deployment Stage Run |
| Action name | OnDeploymentCompleted |

> **Note:** The trigger names and configuration may vary based on your Dataverse version. If you don't see "Deployment Pipeline" in the catalog, ensure the Power Platform Pipelines app is installed on your host environment.

#### Step 3: Extract Deployment Information

Add a **Compose** action to capture key information:

**Inputs:**
```json
{
  "DeploymentId": "@{triggerOutputs()?['body/OutputParameters/StageRunId']}",
  "DeploymentStatus": "@{triggerOutputs()?['body/OutputParameters/Status']}",
  "PipelineName": "@{triggerOutputs()?['body/OutputParameters/PipelineName']}",
  "StageName": "@{triggerOutputs()?['body/OutputParameters/StageName']}",
  "Timestamp": "@{utcNow()}"
}
```

> **Note:** The exact output parameter names depend on the trigger version. Check the dynamic content panel for available fields.

#### Step 4: Send Teams Alert

1. Add **Microsoft Teams** > **Post message in a chat or channel**
2. Configure:

| Setting | Value |
|---------|-------|
| Post as | Flow bot |
| Post in | Channel |
| Team | Your governance team |
| Channel | Pipeline-Alerts |
| Message | See template below |

**Message Template:**

```
**Pipeline Deployment Completed**

- **Pipeline:** @{outputs('Compose')?['PipelineName']}
- **Stage:** @{outputs('Compose')?['StageName']}
- **Status:** @{outputs('Compose')?['DeploymentStatus']}
- **Time:** @{outputs('Compose')?['Timestamp']}

Review in [Deployment Pipeline Configuration](https://[your-host-env].crm.dynamics.com)
```

#### Step 5: Save and Test

1. Click **Save**
2. Create a test deployment in your pipelines host
3. Verify the Teams alert is received

### Create New Pipeline Detection Flow (Limited)

You can detect when new pipelines are created by monitoring the first deployment:

1. Use the **OnDeploymentRequested** trigger
2. Query your tracking table/list for the pipeline name
3. If not found, it's a new pipeline - send alert
4. Add pipeline to tracking list

**Limitation:** This only detects pipelines when they're first used, not when created.

---

## Custom Tracking with Dataverse

If you want to maintain a governance log, create a custom table (not the system DeploymentPipeline table).

### Create PipelineCleanupLog Table

1. Go to [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com)
2. Select your governance environment (can be the pipelines host)
3. Go to **Tables** > **New table**
4. Configure:

| Setting | Value |
|---------|-------|
| Display name | Pipeline Cleanup Log |
| Plural name | Pipeline Cleanup Logs |
| Primary column | Environment Name |

### Add Columns

| Column | Type | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| EnvironmentId | Text | Power Platform environment GUID |
| OwnerEmail | Text | Owner's email address |
| DiscoveredDate | Date and Time | When identified as non-compliant |
| NotificationSentDate | Date and Time | When owner was notified |
| EnforcementDate | Date and Time | Target force-link date |
| Status | Choice | Pending, Notified, ForceLinked, Exempted |
| Notes | Multiline Text | Admin notes |
| ExemptionJustification | Multiline Text | If exempted, the business reason |

### Flow: Update Tracking After Notification

After sending notifications via PowerShell, update the tracking table:

1. Create **Instant cloud flow** with manual trigger
2. Accept CSV file as input (or read from SharePoint)
3. Loop through records
4. For each record, add/update row in PipelineCleanupLog
5. Set Status = "Notified", NotificationSentDate = utcNow()

---

## Validation Flow

Create a flow to check for untracked environments.

### Flow: Weekly Compliance Check

1. **Trigger:** Recurrence (Weekly, Monday 8 AM)
2. **Action:** Run PowerShell script via Azure Automation (or manual export)
3. **Action:** Compare environment list against tracking table
4. **Condition:** If new environments found not in tracking
5. **Action:** Send alert to Platform Ops team

**Note:** Because you cannot query environments or pipelines directly from Power Automate, this flow typically:
- Reads from a SharePoint list/Excel file that's manually updated
- Or triggers an Azure Automation runbook that runs the PowerShell script

---

## Expression Reference

### Get Current Timestamp (UTC)

```
utcNow()
```

### Format Date for Display

```
formatDateTime(triggerOutputs()?['body/Timestamp'], 'MMMM d, yyyy h:mm tt')
```

### Check if Value is Empty

```
empty(triggerOutputs()?['body/OutputParameters/StageName'])
```

### Build Alert Message

```
concat('Pipeline ', triggerOutputs()?['body/OutputParameters/PipelineName'], ' deployment completed at ', utcNow())
```

---

## Error Handling

### Common Errors

| Error | Cause | Solution |
|-------|-------|----------|
| Trigger not found | Pipelines app not installed | Install Power Platform Pipelines on host |
| 403 Forbidden | Missing role | Add Deployment Pipeline Administrator role |
| No dynamic content | Wrong trigger selected | Ensure using Dataverse action trigger |
| Teams post fails | Bot not added | Add Flow bot to Teams channel |

### Add Error Handling to Flows

1. Configure **run after** settings for error paths
2. Add **Scope** actions for try/catch patterns
3. Send error notifications to ops team

**Run After Configuration:**

```json
{
  "runAfter": {
    "Previous_Action": ["Succeeded", "Failed", "Skipped", "TimedOut"]
  }
}
```

---

## Summary: Automation Boundaries

| Task | Automated | Manual | Notes |
|------|-----------|--------|-------|
| List environments | PowerShell | - | PAC CLI |
| Identify pipeline hosts | - | Admin Portal | No API available |
| Query pipelines | Triggers only | Admin Portal | Cannot use "List rows" |
| Send notifications | PowerShell | - | Microsoft Graph |
| Force-link environments | - | Admin Portal | [PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](./PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md) |
| Monitor deployments | Power Automate | - | Trigger-based |
| Track compliance | Custom table | Manual updates | Hybrid approach |

---

## Next Steps

1. Run [Get-PipelineInventory.ps1](./src/Get-PipelineInventory.ps1) to get environment baseline
2. Manually verify pipeline configurations ([PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](./PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md))
3. Prepare notification list with owner information
4. Run [Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1](./src/Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1)
5. Set up trigger-based monitoring (this guide)
6. Execute force-link after notification period ([PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](./PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md))

See [SETUP_CHECKLIST.md](./SETUP_CHECKLIST.md) for complete deployment checklist.
