pipeline-governance-cleanup/LIMITATIONS.md, before:

# Solution Limitations

This document explains the technical limitations of Power Platform pipelines governance automation and provides alternatives for each constraint.

> **Summary:** Full automation of pipeline governance cleanup is not possible due to Power Platform's architecture. This solution provides partial automation where available and documented manual procedures for the rest.

---

## Critical Limitations

### 1. `pac pipeline link` Command Does NOT Exist

**What the documentation originally claimed:**
```powershell
# THIS COMMAND DOES NOT EXIST:
pac pipeline link --environment-id <target-env-id> --host-environment-id <host-env-id>
```

**Reality:** The Power Platform CLI (`pac`) has only two pipeline-related commands:
- `pac pipeline list` - Lists pipelines in an environment
- `pac pipeline deploy` - Triggers a pipeline deployment

There is no CLI command to link or force-link environments to a pipelines host.

**Source:** [PAC CLI Pipeline Reference](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/developer/cli/reference/pipeline)

**Alternative:** Manual UI in Deployment Pipeline Configuration app. See [PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](./PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md).

---

### 2. DeploymentPipeline Table Cannot Be Queried via "List rows"

**What the documentation originally claimed:**
> Use Power Automate "List rows" action to query the DeploymentPipeline table.

**Reality:** The `DeploymentPipeline` table is a system-managed table that is NOT exposed to standard Dataverse query operations in Power Automate. Attempting to use "List rows" with this table will fail or return no results.

**Why:** Microsoft restricts direct query access to pipeline system tables to prevent interference with the pipeline execution engine.

**What IS available:**
- **Pipeline trigger events** - Power Automate can respond to deployment lifecycle events
- **Direct Dataverse API** - With appropriate permissions, advanced users can query via Web API
- **Deployment Pipeline Configuration app** - UI access for administrators

**Alternative:** Use pipeline triggers (`OnDeploymentCompleted`, etc.) for event-based monitoring. See [AUTOMATION_GUIDE.md](./AUTOMATION_GUIDE.md).

---

### 3. Cannot Identify Pipelines Host Association via API

**The problem:** There is no field in the `DeploymentPipeline` table (or related tables) that indicates which host environment the pipeline belongs to. The association is implicit - a pipeline belongs to whichever environment's Dataverse database contains it.

**Why this matters:** You cannot programmatically determine "which environments have pipelines hosted outside the designated host" because:
1. You can't query the DeploymentPipeline table
2. Even if you could, there's no "host environment ID" field
3. Each environment's pipelines live in that environment's Dataverse

**Alternative:**
1. List all environments via PowerShell/PAC CLI
2. Manually check each environment for the Pipelines app
3. Use the Deployment Pipeline Configuration app to see linked environments
4. Build your own tracking table/spreadsheet

---

### 4. Force-Link Is UI-Only

**The problem:** Associating (or force-linking) an environment to a pipelines host can ONLY be done through the Deployment Pipeline Configuration model-driven app UI. There is no:
- API endpoint
- CLI command
- Power Automate action
- PowerShell cmdlet

**Why:** Microsoft designed force-linking as an intentional administrative action with confirmation dialogs to prevent accidental breaking of existing pipeline configurations.

**Alternative:** Document a manual procedure and train administrators. See [PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](./PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md).

---

## What CAN Be Automated

Despite the limitations above, several governance tasks can be automated:

| Task | Method | Notes |
|------|--------|-------|
| List all environments | PowerShell + PAC CLI | Full automation |
| Export environment metadata | PowerShell | Environment type, managed status, etc. |
| Resolve user emails | Microsoft Graph API | Look up owner details |
| Send notification emails | Microsoft Graph API | Full automation |
| Post Teams alerts | Power Automate | Full automation |
| Monitor deployments | Power Automate triggers | Event-based only |
| Track compliance status | Custom Dataverse table | Manual updates required |

---

## Microsoft Documentation Sources

These are the authoritative sources confirming the limitations:

### PAC CLI Pipeline Commands

**URL:** https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/developer/cli/reference/pipeline

**Available commands:**
- `pac pipeline list` - List pipelines
- `pac pipeline deploy` - Deploy a pipeline

**Not available:** link, create, delete, configure

### Extend Pipelines in Power Platform

**URL:** https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/alm/extend-pipelines

**What's documented:**
- Pipeline extensibility through Dataverse triggers
- Pre and post deployment customization
- Event-based integration

**What's NOT documented:** Querying pipeline tables, programmatic linking

### Set Up Custom Host for Pipelines

**URL:** https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/alm/custom-host-pipelines

**Key statement:**
> "Link development environments to the pipelines host using the Deployment Pipeline Configuration app"

**Implication:** The documentation only describes UI-based linking, confirming no API exists.

---

## Setting Customer Expectations

When implementing this solution, communicate these realities:

### What This Solution Provides

| Capability | Delivery |
|------------|----------|
| Discovery | PowerShell scripts export environment list |
| Communication | Automated email notifications to owners |
| Tracking | Custom Dataverse table or Excel spreadsheet |
| Monitoring | Trigger-based alerts for deployment events |
| Procedures | Documented manual steps for force-linking |

### What This Solution Does NOT Provide

| Capability | Reality |
|------------|---------|
| Automated enforcement | Admin must manually force-link each environment |
| Self-service cleanup | Makers cannot self-migrate pipelines |
| Pipeline inventory export | Cannot query DeploymentPipeline table |
| Scheduled force-link | Force-link is always manual |
| API-based compliance check | Must use UI or manual verification |

### Recommended Customer Communication

Include this in your governance communications:

> **Pipeline Governance Notice**
>
> Our organization is consolidating deployment pipelines to a centralized host.
>
> **Automated steps:**
> - You will receive email notification before any changes
> - 30-60 day notice period for migration
>
> **Manual steps (performed by admins):**
> - Environments will be force-linked to the corporate host
> - This action cannot be undone without admin intervention
>
> **Your action required:**
> - Migrate pipelines to the corporate host, OR
> - Request an exemption with business justification

---

## Future Considerations

Microsoft's Power Platform roadmap may address some limitations:

### Potential Future Capabilities

| Capability | Status | Notes |
|------------|--------|-------|
| API for pipeline management | Not announced | Would enable full automation |
| CLI force-link command | Not announced | Would enable scripted enforcement |
| Query support for system tables | Unlikely | Security/stability concerns |
| Bulk environment linking | Not announced | Would speed up migrations |

### Workaround Strategies

Until Microsoft provides APIs:

1. **Azure Automation + UI Automation**
   - Use browser automation (Selenium, Playwright) to script the UI
   - High maintenance burden, brittle to UI changes
   - Not recommended for production

2. **Dataverse Web API Direct Access**
   - With System Administrator role, may be able to query/modify system tables
   - Unsupported, may break with updates
   - Not recommended

3. **Microsoft Support Engagement**
   - For large-scale migrations, engage Microsoft support
   - They may have internal tools for bulk operations
   - Recommended for 100+ environment migrations

---

## Summary

| Limitation | Severity | Workaround |
|------------|----------|------------|
| No `pac pipeline link` | **Critical** | Manual UI procedure |
| Can't query DeploymentPipeline | **Critical** | Use triggers only |
| No host association field | **High** | Manual verification |
| Force-link is UI-only | **High** | Documented procedure |
| Can't detect all pipelines | **Medium** | Event-based monitoring |

**Bottom line:** This solution automates what can be automated (discovery, notification, monitoring) and provides clear documentation for the manual steps that remain unavoidable.

---

## See Also

- [AUTOMATION_GUIDE.md](./AUTOMATION_GUIDE.md) - What CAN be automated
- [PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](./PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md) - Manual UI procedures
- [README.md](./README.md) - Solution overview

Commit message:

fix: Pipeline Governance Cleanup v1.0.3 - executive feedback remediation
Address material correctness gaps identified during executive assessment:

- Get-PipelineInventory.ps1: Fix header overpromising, add -ProbePipelines
  switch to detect pipeline presence, remove dead Graph code
- Send-OwnerNotifications.ps1: Fix permission claim (delegated only)
- NOTIFICATION_TEMPLATES.md: Standardize to force-link language
- LIMITATIONS.md: Acknowledge pac pipeline list --environment capability
- Update all documentation for new -ProbePipelines functionality

pipeline-governance-cleanup/LIMITATIONS.md, after:

# Solution Limitations

This document explains the technical limitations of Power Platform pipelines governance automation and provides alternatives for each constraint.

> **Summary:** Full automation of pipeline governance cleanup is not possible due to Power Platform's architecture. This solution provides partial automation where available and documented manual procedures for the rest.

---

## Critical Limitations

### 1. `pac pipeline link` Command Does NOT Exist

**What the documentation originally claimed:**
```powershell
# THIS COMMAND DOES NOT EXIST:
pac pipeline link --environment-id <target-env-id> --host-environment-id <host-env-id>
```

**Reality:** The Power Platform CLI (`pac`) has only two pipeline-related commands:
- `pac pipeline list` - Lists pipelines in an environment
- `pac pipeline deploy` - Triggers a pipeline deployment

There is no CLI command to link or force-link environments to a pipelines host.

**Source:** [PAC CLI Pipeline Reference](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/developer/cli/reference/pipeline)

**Alternative:** Manual UI in Deployment Pipeline Configuration app. See [PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](./PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md).

---

### 2. DeploymentPipeline Table Cannot Be Queried via "List rows"

**What the documentation originally claimed:**
> Use Power Automate "List rows" action to query the DeploymentPipeline table.

**Reality:** The `DeploymentPipeline` table is a system-managed table that is NOT exposed to standard Dataverse query operations in Power Automate. Attempting to use "List rows" with this table will fail or return no results.

**Why:** Microsoft restricts direct query access to pipeline system tables to prevent interference with the pipeline execution engine.

**What IS available:**
- **Pipeline trigger events** - Power Automate can respond to deployment lifecycle events
- **Direct Dataverse API** - With appropriate permissions, advanced users can query via Web API
- **Deployment Pipeline Configuration app** - UI access for administrators

**Alternative:** Use pipeline triggers (`OnDeploymentCompleted`, etc.) for event-based monitoring. See [AUTOMATION_GUIDE.md](./AUTOMATION_GUIDE.md).

---

### 3. Cannot Identify Pipelines Host Association via API

**What CAN be automated:** You can detect whether an environment has pipelines using:

```powershell
pac pipeline list --environment <env-id>
```

This returns pipelines that deploy TO the environment (as a target stage). Use the `-ProbePipelines` switch in `Get-PipelineInventory.ps1` to automate this check across all environments.

**What CANNOT be automated:** Determining which host environment owns/hosts the pipeline configuration. The association is implicit - a pipeline belongs to whichever environment's Dataverse database contains it. There is no field in the `DeploymentPipeline` table (or related tables) that indicates which host environment the pipeline belongs to.

**Why this matters:** You cannot programmatically determine "which environments have pipelines hosted outside the designated host" because:
1. You can't query the DeploymentPipeline table via standard APIs
2. Even if you could, there's no "host environment ID" field
3. The pipeline-to-host relationship is implicit (the host is where the pipeline record exists)

**Alternative for host identification:**
1. List all environments via PowerShell/PAC CLI
2. Use `-ProbePipelines` to identify environments with pipelines configured
3. Manually check each environment with pipelines in the Deployment Pipeline Configuration app to see which host they're linked to
4. Build your own tracking table/spreadsheet

---

### 4. Force-Link Is UI-Only

**The problem:** Associating (or force-linking) an environment to a pipelines host can ONLY be done through the Deployment Pipeline Configuration model-driven app UI. There is no:
- API endpoint
- CLI command
- Power Automate action
- PowerShell cmdlet

**Why:** Microsoft designed force-linking as an intentional administrative action with confirmation dialogs to prevent accidental breaking of existing pipeline configurations.

**Alternative:** Document a manual procedure and train administrators. See [PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](./PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md).

---

## What CAN Be Automated

Despite the limitations above, several governance tasks can be automated:

| Task | Method | Notes |
|------|--------|-------|
| List all environments | PowerShell + PAC CLI | Full automation |
| Export environment metadata | PowerShell | Environment type, managed status, etc. |
| Detect pipeline presence | PowerShell + PAC CLI | Use `-ProbePipelines` switch |
| Send notification emails | Microsoft Graph API | Full automation |
| Post Teams alerts | Power Automate | Full automation |
| Monitor deployments | Power Automate triggers | Event-based only |
| Track compliance status | Custom Dataverse table | Manual updates required |

---

## Microsoft Documentation Sources

These are the authoritative sources confirming the limitations:

### PAC CLI Pipeline Commands

**URL:** https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/developer/cli/reference/pipeline

**Available commands:**
- `pac pipeline list` - List pipelines
- `pac pipeline deploy` - Deploy a pipeline

**Not available:** link, create, delete, configure

### Extend Pipelines in Power Platform

**URL:** https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/alm/extend-pipelines

**What's documented:**
- Pipeline extensibility through Dataverse triggers
- Pre and post deployment customization
- Event-based integration

**What's NOT documented:** Querying pipeline tables, programmatic linking

### Set Up Custom Host for Pipelines

**URL:** https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/alm/custom-host-pipelines

**Key statement:**
> "Link development environments to the pipelines host using the Deployment Pipeline Configuration app"

**Implication:** The documentation only describes UI-based linking, confirming no API exists.

---

## Setting Customer Expectations

When implementing this solution, communicate these realities:

### What This Solution Provides

| Capability | Delivery |
|------------|----------|
| Discovery | PowerShell scripts export environment list |
| Communication | Automated email notifications to owners |
| Tracking | Custom Dataverse table or Excel spreadsheet |
| Monitoring | Trigger-based alerts for deployment events |
| Procedures | Documented manual steps for force-linking |

### What This Solution Does NOT Provide

| Capability | Reality |
|------------|---------|
| Automated enforcement | Admin must manually force-link each environment |
| Self-service cleanup | Makers cannot self-migrate pipelines |
| Pipeline inventory export | Cannot query DeploymentPipeline table |
| Scheduled force-link | Force-link is always manual |
| API-based compliance check | Must use UI or manual verification |

### Recommended Customer Communication

Include this in your governance communications:

> **Pipeline Governance Notice**
>
> Our organization is consolidating deployment pipelines to a centralized host.
>
> **Automated steps:**
> - You will receive email notification before any changes
> - 30-60 day notice period for migration
>
> **Manual steps (performed by admins):**
> - Environments will be force-linked to the corporate host
> - This action cannot be undone without admin intervention
>
> **Your action required:**
> - Migrate pipelines to the corporate host, OR
> - Request an exemption with business justification

---

## Future Considerations

Microsoft's Power Platform roadmap may address some limitations:

### Potential Future Capabilities

| Capability | Status | Notes |
|------------|--------|-------|
| API for pipeline management | Not announced | Would enable full automation |
| CLI force-link command | Not announced | Would enable scripted enforcement |
| Query support for system tables | Unlikely | Security/stability concerns |
| Bulk environment linking | Not announced | Would speed up migrations |

### Workaround Strategies

Until Microsoft provides APIs:

1. **Azure Automation + UI Automation**
   - Use browser automation (Selenium, Playwright) to script the UI
   - High maintenance burden, brittle to UI changes
   - Not recommended for production

2. **Dataverse Web API Direct Access**
   - With System Administrator role, may be able to query/modify system tables
   - Unsupported, may break with updates
   - Not recommended

3. **Microsoft Support Engagement**
   - For large-scale migrations, engage Microsoft support
   - They may have internal tools for bulk operations
   - Recommended for 100+ environment migrations

---

## Summary

| Limitation | Severity | Workaround |
|------------|----------|------------|
| No `pac pipeline link` | **Critical** | Manual UI procedure |
| Can't query DeploymentPipeline | **Critical** | Use triggers only |
| No host association field | **High** | Manual verification |
| Force-link is UI-only | **High** | Documented procedure |
| Can't detect host for pipelines | **Medium** | Use `-ProbePipelines` + manual host verification |

**Bottom line:** This solution automates what can be automated (discovery, notification, monitoring) and provides clear documentation for the manual steps that remain unavoidable.

---

## See Also

- [AUTOMATION_GUIDE.md](./AUTOMATION_GUIDE.md) - What CAN be automated
- [PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md](./PORTAL_WALKTHROUGH.md) - Manual UI procedures
- [README.md](./README.md) - Solution overview
