message-center-monitor/FLOW_SETUP.md, before:

# Power Automate Flow Setup

This guide walks through creating the Message Center Monitor flow in Power Automate.

## Overview

The flow:
1. Runs on a daily schedule
2. Calls Microsoft Graph API to get Message Center posts
3. Upserts posts to Dataverse
4. Sends Teams notifications for high-severity posts

## Prerequisites

Before starting, ensure you have:

- [ ] Azure AD app registration with `ServiceMessage.Read.All` permission
- [ ] Admin consent granted for the app
- [ ] Client ID, Tenant ID, and Client Secret ready
- [ ] Dataverse table created (see README.md)
- [ ] Azure Key Vault with client secret stored (recommended)

## Step 1: Create a New Flow

1. Go to [make.powerautomate.com](https://make.powerautomate.com)
2. Click **Create** > **Scheduled cloud flow**
3. Name: `Message Center Monitor`
4. Set schedule:
   - Start: Today
   - Repeat every: 1 Day
   - At: 9:00 AM (or your preferred time)
5. Click **Create**

## Step 2: Get Client Secret from Key Vault (Recommended)

If using Azure Key Vault:

1. Add action: **Azure Key Vault - Get secret**
2. Configure:
   - Vault name: Your Key Vault name
   - Secret name: Your client secret name
3. The output `value` contains your client secret

If not using Key Vault, you'll enter the secret directly in the HTTP action (less secure).

## Step 3: Call Microsoft Graph API

Add action: **HTTP**

Configure:
- **Method:** GET
- **URI:** `https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/admin/serviceAnnouncement/messages`
- **Authentication:** Active Directory OAuth
  - **Authority:** `https://login.microsoftonline.com`
  - **Tenant:** Your tenant ID (GUID)
  - **Audience:** `https://graph.microsoft.com`
  - **Client ID:** Your app registration client ID
  - **Credential Type:** Secret
  - **Secret:** From Key Vault output, or entered directly

### Authentication Screenshot Reference

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Authentication                              │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ Authentication type: Active Directory OAuth │
│                                             │
│ Authority:   https://login.microsoftonline.com
│ Tenant:      xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx   │
│ Audience:    https://graph.microsoft.com    │
│ Client ID:   xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx   │
│ Credential Type: Secret                     │
│ Secret:      [Key Vault output or direct]   │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Step 4: Parse JSON Response

Add action: **Parse JSON**

- **Content:** `@{body('HTTP')}`
- **Schema:** Click "Generate from sample" and paste this sample:

```json
{
  "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/$metadata#admin/serviceAnnouncement/messages",
  "@odata.nextLink": "https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/admin/serviceAnnouncement/messages?$skip=100",
  "value": [
    {
      "id": "MC123456",
      "title": "Sample Message Center Post",
      "category": "planForChange",
      "severity": "normal",
      "services": ["Microsoft 365 suite"],
      "startDateTime": "2026-01-01T00:00:00Z",
      "endDateTime": "2026-02-01T00:00:00Z",
      "lastModifiedDateTime": "2026-01-01T12:00:00Z",
      "isMajorChange": false,
      "actionRequiredByDateTime": null,
      "body": {
        "contentType": "html",
        "content": "<p>Message content here</p>"
      },
      "tags": ["Feature update"],
      "hasAttachments": false
    }
  ]
}
```

> **Note:** The `@odata.nextLink` field appears when there are more results. Include it in your schema so Parse JSON doesn't fail when pagination is present.

## Step 5: Handle Pagination (Important)

Microsoft Graph API returns paged results. Without handling pagination, you may only get the first page (~100 posts) and miss older messages.

### Understanding `@odata.nextLink`

When more results exist than fit in one response, Graph API includes `@odata.nextLink` - a URL to fetch the next page. You must loop until this value is absent.

### Pattern: Do Until Loop

1. **Initialize variable** `nextLink` (String) = `https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/admin/serviceAnnouncement/messages`
2. **Initialize variable** `allMessages` (Array) = `[]`
3. **Do Until** `@empty(variables('nextLink'))`:
   - HTTP GET to `@{variables('nextLink')}` (with same authentication)
   - **Append to array** `allMessages`: `@{body('HTTP')?['value']}`
   - **Set variable** `nextLink` = `@{coalesce(body('HTTP')?['@odata.nextLink'], '')}`
4. Process `allMessages` in the Apply to each loop

### Simplified Flow Diagram

```
┌─ Initialize nextLink = Graph URL
├─ Initialize allMessages = []
│
├─ Do Until (nextLink is empty)
│   ├─ HTTP GET nextLink
│   ├─ Append value to allMessages
│   └─ Set nextLink = @odata.nextLink (or empty)
│
└─ Apply to each (allMessages)
    └─ Process message...
```

> **Note:** For new deployments, this pattern is recommended. However, if you're processing daily and your tenant has fewer than 100 active posts, the basic single-request approach will work.

---

## Step 6: Loop Through Messages

Add action: **Apply to each**

- **Select an output from previous steps:** `@{variables('allMessages')}` (if using pagination) or `@{body('Parse_JSON')?['value']}` (basic)

Inside the loop, add these actions:

### 6a: Compose Message ID

Add action: **Compose**
- **Inputs:** `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['id']}`

### 6b: Compose Severity

Add action: **Compose**
- **Inputs:** `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['severity']}`

### 6c: Upsert to Dataverse

**Recommended: Alternate Key Approach**

If you can configure an alternate key on your Dataverse table, use the simpler "Upsert a row" action:

**Creating the Alternate Key:**

1. Go to [make.powerapps.com](https://make.powerapps.com)
2. Select your environment from the environment picker (top right)
3. Navigate to **Tables** in the left menu
4. Find and open **MessageCenterLog** table
5. Click **Keys** in the left submenu (under Schema)
6. Click **+ New key**
7. Configure:
   - **Display name:** `MessageCenterId Key`
   - **Name:** (auto-generated, or customize)
   - **Columns:** Select `messagecenterId`
8. Click **Save**
9. Wait for the key to be created (status changes from "In Progress" to "Active")

**Using the Alternate Key in Power Automate:**

1. In your flow, use **Dataverse - Update or insert (upsert) a row**
   - Table: MessageCenterLog
   - Alternate Key: messagecenterId = `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['id']}`

This eliminates the need for List + Condition logic.

**Alternative: Manual Check Pattern**

If you cannot modify the table schema, use this pattern:

1. Add action: **Dataverse - List rows**
   - Table: MessageCenterLog
   - Filter: `messagecenterId eq '@{items('Apply_to_each')?['id']}'`

2. Add **Condition**: Check if row exists
   - If yes: **Update a row**
   - If no: **Add a row**

**Field mappings for Add/Update:**

| Dataverse Column | Expression |
|------------------|------------|
| messagecenterId | `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['id']}` |
| title | `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['title']}` |
| category | Map to choice value (see below) |
| severity | Map to choice value (see below) |
| services | `@{join(items('Apply_to_each')?['services'], ', ')}` |
| startDateTime | `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['startDateTime']}` |
| actionRequiredByDateTime | `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['actionRequiredByDateTime']}` |
| body | `@{coalesce(items('Apply_to_each')?['body']?['content'], '')}` |

**Category mapping:**
- planForChange → Feature
- stayInformed → Admin
- preventOrFixIssue → Security

**Severity mapping:**
- high → High
- normal → Normal
- critical → Critical

### Choice Field Implementation with Switch

For category and severity, you need to map API text values to Dataverse choice values. Use a **Switch** action:

**Category Switch Example:**

1. Add action: **Switch**
2. On: `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['category']}`
3. Add cases:
   - Case `planForChange`: Set variable `categoryValue` = `Feature` (or your choice ID)
   - Case `stayInformed`: Set variable `categoryValue` = `Admin`
   - Case `preventOrFixIssue`: Set variable `categoryValue` = `Security`
   - Default: Set variable `categoryValue` = `Admin`

**Severity Switch Example:**

1. Add action: **Switch**
2. On: `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['severity']}`
3. Add cases:
   - Case `high`: Set variable `severityValue` = `High`
   - Case `normal`: Set variable `severityValue` = `Normal`
   - Case `critical`: Set variable `severityValue` = `Critical`
   - Default: Set variable `severityValue` = `Normal`

> **Tip:** If your Dataverse choices use numeric IDs (e.g., `100000000` for High), use those IDs instead of text values in your Switch cases.

## Step 7: Teams Notification for High Severity

Inside the Apply to each loop, after the Dataverse action:

Add **Condition** to notify when action is truly needed:

**Option A: Basic Check**
```
@or(
  equals(items('Apply_to_each')?['severity'], 'high'),
  equals(items('Apply_to_each')?['severity'], 'critical')
)
```

OR

- `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['actionRequiredByDateTime']}` is not equal to `null`

**Option B: Refined Check (Recommended)**

Use an expression to only notify when `actionRequiredByDateTime` is in the future:

```
@or(
  equals(items('Apply_to_each')?['severity'], 'high'),
  and(
    not(equals(items('Apply_to_each')?['actionRequiredByDateTime'], null)),
    greater(items('Apply_to_each')?['actionRequiredByDateTime'], utcNow())
  )
)
```

This prevents notifications for posts with past deadlines.

**Optional Enhancement:** Also check `isMajorChange`:

```
@or(
  equals(items('Apply_to_each')?['severity'], 'high'),
  equals(items('Apply_to_each')?['isMajorChange'], true),
  and(
    not(equals(items('Apply_to_each')?['actionRequiredByDateTime'], null)),
    greater(items('Apply_to_each')?['actionRequiredByDateTime'], utcNow())
  )
)
```

**If yes:**

Add action: **Microsoft Teams - Post adaptive card in a chat or channel**

- **Post as:** Flow bot
- **Post in:** Channel
- **Team:** Your team
- **Channel:** Your alerts channel
- **Adaptive Card:** Use the template from [teams-notification-card.json](./teams-notification-card.json)

Replace placeholders in the card with dynamic content:
- `{title}` → `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['title']}`
- `{severity}` → `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['severity']}`
- `{category}` → `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['category']}`
- `{services}` → `@{join(items('Apply_to_each')?['services'], ', ')}`
- `{actionRequiredByDateTime}` → `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['actionRequiredByDateTime']}`
- `{id}` → `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['id']}`

## Step 8: Error Handling

### Configure Run After

For the Apply to each action:
1. Click the three dots (...) > **Configure run after**
2. Ensure it runs after HTTP succeeds

### Add Scope for Error Handling

Wrap the main processing logic in a **Scope** action for better error handling:

1. Add **Scope** action (call it "Try")
2. Move inside the Try scope:
   - HTTP action (or Do Until loop for pagination)
   - Parse JSON action
   - Apply to each loop (including Dataverse upsert and Teams notification)
3. Add another **Scope** after (call it "Catch")
4. Configure "Catch" to run after "Try" has failed
5. In "Catch", add a Teams notification for errors:
   - Post a message: "Message Center Monitor flow failed. Check run history."

> **Why include Apply to each in Try?** If a single message fails to process (e.g., malformed data), the entire loop stops. Wrapping it in Try ensures you get notified of partial failures. For even more granular handling, you can add a nested Try/Catch inside the Apply to each loop to handle individual message failures without stopping the entire run.

## Step 9: Save and Test

1. Click **Save**
2. Click **Test** > **Manually** > **Test**
3. Wait for the flow to complete
4. Check:
   - Dataverse table has new rows
   - Teams channel received notifications (if high-severity posts exist)

## Complete Flow Structure

```
┌─ Recurrence (Daily at 9 AM)
│
├─ [Scope: Try]
│   ├─ Get secret (Azure Key Vault)
│   ├─ Initialize variables (nextLink, allMessages)
│   │
│   ├─ Do Until (nextLink is empty)
│   │   ├─ HTTP GET nextLink
│   │   ├─ Append to allMessages
│   │   └─ Set nextLink = @odata.nextLink
│   │
│   └─ Parse JSON (optional, for schema validation)
│
├─ Apply to each (allMessages)
│   ├─ Upsert row (alternate key)
│   │   OR
│   │   ├─ List rows (check if exists)
│   │   └─ Condition → Add or Update
│   │
│   └─ Condition (high severity OR future action required?)
│       └─ Yes: Post adaptive card to Teams
│
└─ [Scope: Catch] (runs on failure)
    └─ Post error notification to Teams
```

## Troubleshooting

### HTTP action fails with 401

- Verify app registration has `ServiceMessage.Read.All`
- Confirm admin consent was granted
- Check tenant ID and client ID are correct
- Verify client secret hasn't expired

### HTTP action fails with 403

- `ServiceMessage.Read.All` requires **Application** permission, not Delegated
- Admin consent must be granted by a Global Administrator

### Parse JSON fails

- Check HTTP response for error messages
- Verify the schema matches the actual response
- Use "Generate from sample" with real API response

### Dataverse actions fail

- Verify table and column names match exactly
- Check that choice values are mapped correctly
- Ensure the connection has sufficient permissions

### Teams notifications not appearing

- Verify the Teams connector is properly authenticated
- Check that the team and channel exist
- Review the adaptive card JSON for syntax errors

## Rate Limits

Microsoft Graph API has rate limits:
- Per-app: 10,000 requests per 10 minutes
- Per-tenant: 150,000 requests per 5 minutes

Daily polling is well within these limits. Even hourly polling (not recommended) would only use ~24 requests/day.

---

## Optional Optimizations

### Delta Tracking with lastModifiedDateTime

After your first sync, you can filter to only retrieve recently modified posts. This reduces processing time and API payload size.

**Pattern:**

1. Store the timestamp of your last successful sync (options):
   - Dataverse config table row
   - Environment variable
   - Flow variable persisted to a file/SharePoint

2. On subsequent runs, filter the API call:
   ```
   https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/admin/serviceAnnouncement/messages?$filter=lastModifiedDateTime ge 2025-01-25T00:00:00Z
   ```

3. Update the stored timestamp after successful processing

**Expression for filter:**
```
$filter=lastModifiedDateTime ge @{variables('lastSyncTime')}
```

**First Run vs. Subsequent Runs:**

- First run: No filter, retrieve all posts
- Subsequent runs: Filter by `lastModifiedDateTime`
- Suggested: Also run a full sync weekly to catch any edge cases

### Combining Optimizations

For busy tenants, combine pagination with delta tracking:

```
┌─ Get lastSyncTime from config
├─ Set API URL with $filter parameter
├─ Do Until (pagination loop)
│   └─ Process new/updated messages
└─ Update lastSyncTime in config
```

This approach minimizes both API calls and processing time while ensuring you don't miss any posts.

Commit message:

docs: Message Center Monitor v2.1.1 technical accuracy updates
- Azure AD → Microsoft Entra ID terminology throughout
- Portal navigation updated to Microsoft Entra admin center
- Admin consent clarification (not exclusively Global Admin)
- Teams action renamed: "Post card in a chat or channel"
- Adaptive Card version compatibility note (1.0-1.5)
- Max page size documentation (1000 via Prefer header)

message-center-monitor/FLOW_SETUP.md, after:

# Power Automate Flow Setup

This guide walks through creating the Message Center Monitor flow in Power Automate.

## Overview

The flow:
1. Runs on a daily schedule
2. Calls Microsoft Graph API to get Message Center posts
3. Upserts posts to Dataverse
4. Sends Teams notifications for high-severity posts

## Prerequisites

Before starting, ensure you have:

- [ ] Microsoft Entra ID app registration with `ServiceMessage.Read.All` permission
- [ ] Admin consent granted for the app (any administrator with permission to consent)
- [ ] Client ID, Tenant ID, and Client Secret ready
- [ ] Dataverse table created (see README.md)
- [ ] Azure Key Vault with client secret stored (recommended)

## Step 1: Create a New Flow

1. Go to [make.powerautomate.com](https://make.powerautomate.com)
2. Click **Create** > **Scheduled cloud flow**
3. Name: `Message Center Monitor`
4. Set schedule:
   - Start: Today
   - Repeat every: 1 Day
   - At: 9:00 AM (or your preferred time)
5. Click **Create**

## Step 2: Get Client Secret from Key Vault (Recommended)

If using Azure Key Vault:

1. Add action: **Azure Key Vault - Get secret**
2. Configure:
   - Vault name: Your Key Vault name
   - Secret name: Your client secret name
3. The output `value` contains your client secret

If not using Key Vault, you'll enter the secret directly in the HTTP action (less secure).

## Step 3: Call Microsoft Graph API

Add action: **HTTP**

Configure:
- **Method:** GET
- **URI:** `https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/admin/serviceAnnouncement/messages`
- **Authentication:** Active Directory OAuth
  - **Authority:** `https://login.microsoftonline.com`
  - **Tenant:** Your tenant ID (GUID)
  - **Audience:** `https://graph.microsoft.com`
  - **Client ID:** Your app registration client ID
  - **Credential Type:** Secret
  - **Secret:** From Key Vault output, or entered directly

### Authentication Screenshot Reference

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Authentication                              │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ Authentication type: Active Directory OAuth │
│                                             │
│ Authority:   https://login.microsoftonline.com
│ Tenant:      xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx   │
│ Audience:    https://graph.microsoft.com    │
│ Client ID:   xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx   │
│ Credential Type: Secret                     │
│ Secret:      [Key Vault output or direct]   │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Step 4: Parse JSON Response

Add action: **Parse JSON**

- **Content:** `@{body('HTTP')}`
- **Schema:** Click "Generate from sample" and paste this sample:

```json
{
  "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/$metadata#admin/serviceAnnouncement/messages",
  "@odata.nextLink": "https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/admin/serviceAnnouncement/messages?$skip=100",
  "value": [
    {
      "id": "MC123456",
      "title": "Sample Message Center Post",
      "category": "planForChange",
      "severity": "normal",
      "services": ["Microsoft 365 suite"],
      "startDateTime": "2026-01-01T00:00:00Z",
      "endDateTime": "2026-02-01T00:00:00Z",
      "lastModifiedDateTime": "2026-01-01T12:00:00Z",
      "isMajorChange": false,
      "actionRequiredByDateTime": null,
      "body": {
        "contentType": "html",
        "content": "<p>Message content here</p>"
      },
      "tags": ["Feature update"],
      "hasAttachments": false
    }
  ]
}
```

> **Note:** The `@odata.nextLink` field appears when there are more results. Include it in your schema so Parse JSON doesn't fail when pagination is present.

## Step 5: Handle Pagination (Important)

Microsoft Graph API returns paged results. Without handling pagination, you may only get the first page (~100 posts) and miss older messages.

### Understanding `@odata.nextLink`

When more results exist than fit in one response, Graph API includes `@odata.nextLink` - a URL to fetch the next page. You must loop until this value is absent.

> **Page Size:** The default page size is 100 items. You can request up to 1000 items per page by adding the `Prefer: odata.maxpagesize=1000` header to your HTTP request. This reduces the number of API calls needed for tenants with many posts.

### Pattern: Do Until Loop

1. **Initialize variable** `nextLink` (String) = `https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/admin/serviceAnnouncement/messages`
2. **Initialize variable** `allMessages` (Array) = `[]`
3. **Do Until** `@empty(variables('nextLink'))`:
   - HTTP GET to `@{variables('nextLink')}` (with same authentication)
   - **Append to array** `allMessages`: `@{body('HTTP')?['value']}`
   - **Set variable** `nextLink` = `@{coalesce(body('HTTP')?['@odata.nextLink'], '')}`
4. Process `allMessages` in the Apply to each loop

### Simplified Flow Diagram

```
┌─ Initialize nextLink = Graph URL
├─ Initialize allMessages = []
│
├─ Do Until (nextLink is empty)
│   ├─ HTTP GET nextLink
│   ├─ Append value to allMessages
│   └─ Set nextLink = @odata.nextLink (or empty)
│
└─ Apply to each (allMessages)
    └─ Process message...
```

> **Note:** For new deployments, this pattern is recommended. However, if you're processing daily and your tenant has fewer than 100 active posts, the basic single-request approach will work.

---

## Step 6: Loop Through Messages

Add action: **Apply to each**

- **Select an output from previous steps:** `@{variables('allMessages')}` (if using pagination) or `@{body('Parse_JSON')?['value']}` (basic)

Inside the loop, add these actions:

### 6a: Compose Message ID

Add action: **Compose**
- **Inputs:** `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['id']}`

### 6b: Compose Severity

Add action: **Compose**
- **Inputs:** `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['severity']}`

### 6c: Upsert to Dataverse

**Recommended: Alternate Key Approach**

If you can configure an alternate key on your Dataverse table, use the simpler "Upsert a row" action:

**Creating the Alternate Key:**

1. Go to [make.powerapps.com](https://make.powerapps.com)
2. Select your environment from the environment picker (top right)
3. Navigate to **Tables** in the left menu
4. Find and open **MessageCenterLog** table
5. Click **Keys** in the left submenu (under Schema)
6. Click **+ New key**
7. Configure:
   - **Display name:** `MessageCenterId Key`
   - **Name:** (auto-generated, or customize)
   - **Columns:** Select `messagecenterId`
8. Click **Save**
9. Wait for the key to be created (status changes from "In Progress" to "Active")

**Using the Alternate Key in Power Automate:**

1. In your flow, use **Dataverse - Update or insert (upsert) a row**
   - Table: MessageCenterLog
   - Alternate Key: messagecenterId = `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['id']}`

This eliminates the need for List + Condition logic.

**Alternative: Manual Check Pattern**

If you cannot modify the table schema, use this pattern:

1. Add action: **Dataverse - List rows**
   - Table: MessageCenterLog
   - Filter: `messagecenterId eq '@{items('Apply_to_each')?['id']}'`

2. Add **Condition**: Check if row exists
   - If yes: **Update a row**
   - If no: **Add a row**

**Field mappings for Add/Update:**

| Dataverse Column | Expression |
|------------------|------------|
| messagecenterId | `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['id']}` |
| title | `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['title']}` |
| category | Map to choice value (see below) |
| severity | Map to choice value (see below) |
| services | `@{join(items('Apply_to_each')?['services'], ', ')}` |
| startDateTime | `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['startDateTime']}` |
| actionRequiredByDateTime | `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['actionRequiredByDateTime']}` |
| body | `@{coalesce(items('Apply_to_each')?['body']?['content'], '')}` |

**Category mapping:**
- planForChange → Feature
- stayInformed → Admin
- preventOrFixIssue → Security

**Severity mapping:**
- high → High
- normal → Normal
- critical → Critical

### Choice Field Implementation with Switch

For category and severity, you need to map API text values to Dataverse choice values. Use a **Switch** action:

**Category Switch Example:**

1. Add action: **Switch**
2. On: `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['category']}`
3. Add cases:
   - Case `planForChange`: Set variable `categoryValue` = `Feature` (or your choice ID)
   - Case `stayInformed`: Set variable `categoryValue` = `Admin`
   - Case `preventOrFixIssue`: Set variable `categoryValue` = `Security`
   - Default: Set variable `categoryValue` = `Admin`

**Severity Switch Example:**

1. Add action: **Switch**
2. On: `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['severity']}`
3. Add cases:
   - Case `high`: Set variable `severityValue` = `High`
   - Case `normal`: Set variable `severityValue` = `Normal`
   - Case `critical`: Set variable `severityValue` = `Critical`
   - Default: Set variable `severityValue` = `Normal`

> **Tip:** If your Dataverse choices use numeric IDs (e.g., `100000000` for High), use those IDs instead of text values in your Switch cases.

## Step 7: Teams Notification for High Severity

Inside the Apply to each loop, after the Dataverse action:

Add **Condition** to notify when action is truly needed:

**Option A: Basic Check**
```
@or(
  equals(items('Apply_to_each')?['severity'], 'high'),
  equals(items('Apply_to_each')?['severity'], 'critical')
)
```

OR

- `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['actionRequiredByDateTime']}` is not equal to `null`

**Option B: Refined Check (Recommended)**

Use an expression to only notify when `actionRequiredByDateTime` is in the future:

```
@or(
  equals(items('Apply_to_each')?['severity'], 'high'),
  and(
    not(equals(items('Apply_to_each')?['actionRequiredByDateTime'], null)),
    greater(items('Apply_to_each')?['actionRequiredByDateTime'], utcNow())
  )
)
```

This prevents notifications for posts with past deadlines.

**Optional Enhancement:** Also check `isMajorChange`:

```
@or(
  equals(items('Apply_to_each')?['severity'], 'high'),
  equals(items('Apply_to_each')?['isMajorChange'], true),
  and(
    not(equals(items('Apply_to_each')?['actionRequiredByDateTime'], null)),
    greater(items('Apply_to_each')?['actionRequiredByDateTime'], utcNow())
  )
)
```

**If yes:**

Add action: **Microsoft Teams - Post card in a chat or channel**

> **Note:** The action was previously called "Post adaptive card in a chat or channel" but has been renamed. If you see the old name in your flow, it will continue to work.

- **Post as:** Flow bot
- **Post in:** Channel
- **Team:** Your team
- **Channel:** Your alerts channel
- **Adaptive Card:** Use the template from [teams-notification-card.json](./teams-notification-card.json)

Replace placeholders in the card with dynamic content:
- `{title}` → `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['title']}`
- `{severity}` → `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['severity']}`
- `{category}` → `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['category']}`
- `{services}` → `@{join(items('Apply_to_each')?['services'], ', ')}`
- `{actionRequiredByDateTime}` → `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['actionRequiredByDateTime']}`
- `{id}` → `@{items('Apply_to_each')?['id']}`

## Step 8: Error Handling

### Configure Run After

For the Apply to each action:
1. Click the three dots (...) > **Configure run after**
2. Ensure it runs after HTTP succeeds

### Add Scope for Error Handling

Wrap the main processing logic in a **Scope** action for better error handling:

1. Add **Scope** action (call it "Try")
2. Move inside the Try scope:
   - HTTP action (or Do Until loop for pagination)
   - Parse JSON action
   - Apply to each loop (including Dataverse upsert and Teams notification)
3. Add another **Scope** after (call it "Catch")
4. Configure "Catch" to run after "Try" has failed
5. In "Catch", add a Teams notification for errors:
   - Post a message: "Message Center Monitor flow failed. Check run history."

> **Why include Apply to each in Try?** If a single message fails to process (e.g., malformed data), the entire loop stops. Wrapping it in Try ensures you get notified of partial failures. For even more granular handling, you can add a nested Try/Catch inside the Apply to each loop to handle individual message failures without stopping the entire run.

## Step 9: Save and Test

1. Click **Save**
2. Click **Test** > **Manually** > **Test**
3. Wait for the flow to complete
4. Check:
   - Dataverse table has new rows
   - Teams channel received notifications (if high-severity posts exist)

## Complete Flow Structure

```
┌─ Recurrence (Daily at 9 AM)
│
├─ [Scope: Try]
│   ├─ Get secret (Azure Key Vault)
│   ├─ Initialize variables (nextLink, allMessages)
│   │
│   ├─ Do Until (nextLink is empty)
│   │   ├─ HTTP GET nextLink
│   │   ├─ Append to allMessages
│   │   └─ Set nextLink = @odata.nextLink
│   │
│   └─ Parse JSON (optional, for schema validation)
│
├─ Apply to each (allMessages)
│   ├─ Upsert row (alternate key)
│   │   OR
│   │   ├─ List rows (check if exists)
│   │   └─ Condition → Add or Update
│   │
│   └─ Condition (high severity OR future action required?)
│       └─ Yes: Post adaptive card to Teams
│
└─ [Scope: Catch] (runs on failure)
    └─ Post error notification to Teams
```

## Troubleshooting

### HTTP action fails with 401

- Verify app registration has `ServiceMessage.Read.All`
- Confirm admin consent was granted
- Check tenant ID and client ID are correct
- Verify client secret hasn't expired

### HTTP action fails with 403

- `ServiceMessage.Read.All` requires **Application** permission, not Delegated
- Admin consent must be granted by an administrator with permission to consent to enterprise applications

### Parse JSON fails

- Check HTTP response for error messages
- Verify the schema matches the actual response
- Use "Generate from sample" with real API response

### Dataverse actions fail

- Verify table and column names match exactly
- Check that choice values are mapped correctly
- Ensure the connection has sufficient permissions

### Teams notifications not appearing

- Verify the Teams connector is properly authenticated
- Check that the team and channel exist
- Review the adaptive card JSON for syntax errors

## Rate Limits

Microsoft Graph API has rate limits:
- Per-app: 10,000 requests per 10 minutes
- Per-tenant: 150,000 requests per 5 minutes

Daily polling is well within these limits. Even hourly polling (not recommended) would only use ~24 requests/day.

---

## Optional Optimizations

### Delta Tracking with lastModifiedDateTime

After your first sync, you can filter to only retrieve recently modified posts. This reduces processing time and API payload size.

**Pattern:**

1. Store the timestamp of your last successful sync (options):
   - Dataverse config table row
   - Environment variable
   - Flow variable persisted to a file/SharePoint

2. On subsequent runs, filter the API call:
   ```
   https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/admin/serviceAnnouncement/messages?$filter=lastModifiedDateTime ge 2025-01-25T00:00:00Z
   ```

3. Update the stored timestamp after successful processing

**Expression for filter:**
```
$filter=lastModifiedDateTime ge @{variables('lastSyncTime')}
```

**First Run vs. Subsequent Runs:**

- First run: No filter, retrieve all posts
- Subsequent runs: Filter by `lastModifiedDateTime`
- Suggested: Also run a full sync weekly to catch any edge cases

### Combining Optimizations

For busy tenants, combine pagination with delta tracking:

```
┌─ Get lastSyncTime from config
├─ Set API URL with $filter parameter
├─ Do Until (pagination loop)
│   └─ Process new/updated messages
└─ Update lastSyncTime in config
```

This approach minimizes both API calls and processing time while ensuring you don't miss any posts.
